			       POSIX AIO library for linux
			Laurent Vivier <Laurent.Vivier@bull.net>
			Sébastien Dugué <Sebastien.Dugue@bull.net>
			   http://www.bullopensource.org/posix
				     June 2006

	This library uses the native AIO API of linux kernel to implement POSIX AIO.

	To use this library, you need at least a 2.6 vanilla kernel, but if you want
	a full implementation of POSIX AIO you'll need to patch this kernel.
	
Features needing kernel patches are:

	FEATURE1: request completion event (enable sigevent field of struct aiocb)

	FEATURE2: list of requests completion event (enable sigevent parameter of
		  lio_listio()) and kernel space LIO_WAIT mechanism.

	FEATURE3: aio_cancel() on a file descriptor (aiocb = NULL)

Optional features needing kernel patches are:

	FEATURE5: system wide default value for max events (maxevents parameter of
		  io_setup() ). By default, uses a developer defined value.

Not implemented features, needing kernel patch (not available):

	- aio_reqprio, request priority management


Patches repository:

	All patches can be found at //www.bullopensource.org/posix

	Patches for the 2.6.10 kernel upward are distributed as quilt patches.


WARNING:
	Right now, kernel AIO relies on the Direct-IO layer to perform
	asynchronously. This means that the file must be opened with
	O_DIRECT and that the AIO request buffer, offset and size must
	be block aligned (512-bytes aligned). The O_DIRECT and buffer
	alignement are handled by the library (which incurs a buffer copy
	penalty) whereas the offset and size alignment must be handled
	by the application.

	Another solution is to use buffered AIO. There are some kernel patches
	around by Suparna Bhattacharya from IBM for allowing direct-io to handle
	unaligned requests. This feature may be enabled in libposix-aio by
	giving configure an --enable-buffered-aio.

NOTE:
	When building the library from a filesystem which does not support
	O_DIRECT (typically network filesystems), the detection of kernel
	features will fail.

   	Users facing this may use the --with-testdir=<directory> option to
	configure to specify where to put the testfiles.


Build:

	Features supported by current kernel are autodetected by the configure
	script. But, you can enable/disable them with following script parameters:

	FEATURE1: --enable-aio-signal or --disable-aio-signal
	FEATURE2: --enable-lio-signal or --disable-lio-signal
	FEATURE3: --enable-cancel-fd or --disable-cancel-fd
	FEATURE4: --enable-lio-wait or --disable-lio-wait
	FEATURE5: --enable-default-maxevents or --disable-default-maxevents

To build the library, you need to follow following steps:

	1- patch your kernel with needed patches and install it
	2- tar xf libposix-aio-*.tar.gz
	3- cd libposix-aio-*
	4- ./configure
	5- make
	6- make install (you must be root)

If you want to use the library, you must link edit your application with libposix-aio.
You can't use LD_PRELOAD to replace librt, because aiocb data structure is different.


Send any comment to sebastien.dugue@bull.net
